[Workers AI] Batch-api (#21413)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers-ai/features/async-batch-api.mdx

- A [`wrangler.jsonc`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) configuration file.

Go to your application directory:

```sh
cd batch-api
```

## 4. Configure wrangler

You must create an AI binding for your Worker to connect to Workers AI. [Bindings](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/) allow your Workers to interact with resources, like Workers AI, on the Cloudflare Developer Platform.

To bind Workers AI to your Worker, add the following to the end of your Wrangler file:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[ai]
binding = "AI"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Your binding is [available in your Worker code](/workers/reference/migrate-to-module-workers/#bindings-in-es-modules-format) on [`env.AI`](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/).

## 4. How to use the Batch API

### 1. Sending a Batch request

Send your initial batch inference request by composing a JSON payload containing an array of individual inference requests. Ensure that the total payload is under 25 MB.

```javascript title=Example code
// Input: JSON with an array of individual request JSONs
const resp = env.AI.run("@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch", {

> 	prompts: [

Reviewer: Need to change `prompts` to `requests`
```suggestion
	requests: [
```

		{
			prompt: "tell me a joke",
			temperature: 0.5,
			max_tokens: 100,
		},
		{
			prompt: "write an email from user to provider.",
			temperature: 0.6,
			max_tokens: 101,
		},
		{
			prompt: "tell me a joke about llamas",
			temperature: 0.7,
			max_tokens: 102,
		},
	],
}, { queueRequest: true });
```

#### Expected Response

After sending your batch request, you will receive a response similar to:

```json
{
	"status": "queued",
	"request_id": "000-000-000",
	"model": "@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch"
}
```

- **`status`**: Indicates that your request is queued.
- **`request_id`**: A unique identifier for the batch request.
- **`model`**: The model used for the batch inference.

### 2. Polling the Batch Request Status

> Once your batch request is queued, use the `request_id` to poll for its status. During processing, the API returns a `202` HTTP status code indicating that the request is still in the queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your batch request is queued, use the `request_id` to poll for its status. During processing, the API returns a status "queued" or "running" indicating that the request is still in the queue or being processed.
```

				}
			},
			"success": true
		}
	],
	"usage": {
		"prompt_tokens": 22,
		"completion_tokens": 243,
		"total_tokens": 265
	}
}
```

- **`responses`**: An array of response objects. Each object includes:
  - **`id`**: The index of the corresponding prompt.
  - **`result`**: The inference output, which may be nested depending on your implementation.
  - **`success`**: A Boolean flag indicating if the request was processed successfully.
- **`usage`**: Contains token usage details for the batch request.

## 5. Implementing the Batch API in your Worker

Below is a sample TypeScript Worker that receives a batch of inference requests, sends them to a batch-enabled AI model, and returns the results.

```ts
export interface Env {
	AI: {
		run: (model: string, payload: any) => Promise<any>;
	};
}

export default {
	async fetch(request: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		// Only allow POST requests
		if (request.method !== "POST") {
			return new Response("Method Not Allowed", { status: 405 });
		}

		try {
			// Parse the incoming JSON payload
			const data = await request.json();

			// Validate that we have a 'prompts' array in the payload

> 			if (!data.prompts || !Array.isArray(data.prompts)) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			if (!data.requests || !Array.isArray(data.requests)) {
```

				return new Response(
					JSON.stringify({

> 						error: "Missing or invalid 'prompts' array in request payload.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
						error: "Missing or invalid 'requests' array in request payload.",
```

					}),
					{ status: 400, headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" } },
				);
			}

			// Send the batch request to the AI model via the AI binding
			// Replace "@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch" with your desired batch-enabled model if needed.
			const batchResponse = await env.AI.run(
				"@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch",
				{
					prompts: data.prompts,

> 				},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				}, { queueRequest: true }
```

> 					prompts: data.prompts,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
					requests: data.requests,
```

---
pcx_content_type: get-started
title: Asynchronous Batch API
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

This guide will walk you through the concepts behind asynchronous batch processing, explain why it matters, and show you how to create and deploy a Cloudflare Worker that leverages the Batch API with the AI binding.

## 1. What Is Asynchronous Batch?

Asynchronous batch processing lets you send a collection (batch) of inference requests in a single call. Instead of expecting immediate responses for every request, the system queues them for processing and returns the results later.

When you send a batch request, the API immediately acknowledges receipt with a status like `"queued"` and provides a unique `request_id`. This ID is later used to poll for the final responses once the processing is complete.

### Why is it important?

- **Handling large workloads:**
  Ideal for use cases like summarizing large documents or generating embeddings from many data points. Instead of overwhelming the system with thousands of individual requests, you can bundle them into a single, manageable batch.

> - **Improved resource management:**

Reviewer 2: i think we can take this out, users won't care

- A `"Hello World"` [Worker](/workers/get-started/guide/#3-write-code) at `src/index.ts`.
- A [`wrangler.jsonc`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) configuration file.

Go to your application directory:

```sh
cd batch-api
```

## 4. Configure wrangler

You must create an AI binding for your Worker to connect to Workers AI. [Bindings](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/) allow your Workers to interact with resources, like Workers AI, on the Cloudflare Developer Platform.

To bind Workers AI to your Worker, add the following to the end of your Wrangler file:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[ai]
binding = "AI"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Your binding is [available in your Worker code](/workers/reference/migrate-to-module-workers/#bindings-in-es-modules-format) on [`env.AI`](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/).

## 4. How to use the Batch API

###  1. Sending a Batch request

Send your initial batch inference request by composing a JSON payload containing an array of individual inference requests. Ensure that the total payload is under 25 MB.

```javascript title=Example code
// Input: JSON with an array of individual request JSONs

> const resp = env.AI.run("@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch", {

Reviewer 2: reminder this will be a different id, ask kevin for help

Reviewer: This model id looks correct

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[ai]
binding = "AI"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Your binding is [available in your Worker code](/workers/reference/migrate-to-module-workers/#bindings-in-es-modules-format) on [`env.AI`](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/).

## 4. How to use the Batch API

### 1. Sending a Batch request

Send your initial batch inference request by composing a JSON payload containing an array of individual inference requests. Ensure that the total payload is under 25 MB.

```javascript title=Example code
// Input: JSON with an array of individual request JSONs
const resp = env.AI.run(
	"@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch",
	{
		requests: [
			{
				prompt: "tell me a joke",
				temperature: 0.5,
				max_tokens: 100,
			},
			{
				prompt: "write an email from user to provider.",
				temperature: 0.6,
				max_tokens: 101,
			},
			{
				prompt: "tell me a joke about llamas",
				temperature: 0.7,
				max_tokens: 102,
			},
		],
	},
	{ queueRequest: true },
);
```

#### Expected Response

After sending your batch request, you will receive a response similar to:

```json
{
	"status": "queued",
	"request_id": "000-000-000",

> 	"model": "@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"model": "@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast"
```

  - **`success`**: A Boolean flag indicating if the request was processed successfully.
- **`usage`**: Contains token usage details for the batch request.

## 5. Implementing the Batch API in your Worker

Below is a sample TypeScript Worker that receives a batch of inference requests, sends them to a batch-enabled AI model, and returns the results.

```ts
export interface Env {
	AI: {
		run: (model: string, payload: any, options: any) => Promise<any>;
	};
}

export default {
	async fetch(request: Request, env: Env): Promise<Response> {
		// Only allow POST requests
		if (request.method !== "POST") {
			return new Response("Method Not Allowed", { status: 405 });
		}

		try {
			// Parse the incoming JSON payload
			const data = await request.json();

			// Validate that we have a 'requests' array in the payload
			if (!data.requests || !Array.isArray(data.requests)) {
				return new Response(
					JSON.stringify({
						error: "Missing or invalid 'requests' array in request payload.",
					}),
					{ status: 400, headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" } },
				);
			}

			// Send the batch request to the AI model via the AI binding

> 			// Replace "@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch" with your desired batch-enabled model if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			// Replace "@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast" with your desired batch-enabled model if needed.
```

			const batchResponse = await env.AI.run(

> 				"@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				"@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast",
```

				{
					requests: data.requests,
				},
				{ queueRequest: true },
			);

			// Return the response from the AI API
			return new Response(JSON.stringify(batchResponse), {
				status: 200,
				headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
			});
		} catch (error: any) {
			// Log the error if needed and return a 500 response
			return new Response(
				JSON.stringify({
					error: error?.toString() || "An unknown error occurred.",
				}),
				{ status: 500, headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" } },
			);
		}
	},
};
```

### How it works:

- **Receiving the Batch request:**
  The Worker expects a `POST` request with a `JSON` payload containing an array called `requests`. Each prompt is an individual inference request.

- **Processing the request:**

>   The code validates the payload and uses the AI binding (`env.AI.run()`) to send the batch request to a designated model (such as, `@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-batch`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The code validates the payload and uses the AI binding (`env.AI.run()`) to send the batch request to a designated model (such as, `@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast`).
```

- **Returning the results:**
  Once processed, the AI API returns the batch responses. These responses include an array where each object has an `id` (matching the prompt index) and the corresponding inference result.

## Using the Batch API via the REST API

If you prefer to work directly with the REST API instead of a Cloudflare Worker, below are the steps on how to do it:

### Sending a Batch Request

Make a POST request to the following endpoint:

```bash
POST https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<account-id>/ai/run/@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast?queueRequest=true
Authorization: <token>
Content-Type: application/json
```

#### Request Payload Example

```json
{
	"requests": [
		{
			"prompt": "Tell me a story",
			"external_reference": "reference2"
		},
		{
			"prompt": "Tell me a joke",
			"external_reference": "reference1"
		}
	]
}
```

### Retrieving the Batch Response

After receiving a `request_id` from your initial POST, you can poll for or retrieve the results with another POST request:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: https://developers.cloudflare.com/style-guide/components/curl/

Reviewer 3: What about this one too?

> POST https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<account-id>/ai/run/@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast?queueRequest=true

Reviewer: The polling API can be called without the query param 
```suggestion
POST https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<account-id>/ai/run/@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast
```

---
pcx_content_type: get-started
title: Asynchronous Batch API
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig, CURL } from "~/components";

> This guide will walk you through the concepts behind asynchronous batch processing, explain why it matters, and show you how to create and deploy a Cloudflare Worker that leverages the Batch API with the AI binding and also working with REST API instead of a Cloudflare Worker.

Reviewer 3: On more thought here.... think this really should be separated out into multiple pages.

```
Features
|
- Batch API
    |
    - Overview (What is (step 1) + supported models + limits)
    - Get started
    - REST API (pull out info from step 6)
```

## 1. What Is Asynchronous Batch?

Asynchronous batch processing lets you send a collection (batch) of inference requests in a single call. Instead of expecting immediate responses for every request, the system queues them for processing and returns the results later.

> When you send a batch request, the API immediately acknowledges receipt with a status like `"queued"` and provides a unique `request_id`. This ID is later used to poll for the final responses once the processing is complete.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you send a batch request, the API immediately acknowledges receipt with a status like `queued` and provides a unique `request_id`. This ID is later used to poll for the final responses once the processing is complete.
```

		lang: "TypeScript",
	}}
/>

This will create a new `batch-api` directory. Your new `batch-api` directory will include:

- A `"Hello World"` [Worker](/workers/get-started/guide/#3-write-code) at `src/index.ts`.
- A [`wrangler.jsonc`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) configuration file.

Go to your application directory:

```sh
cd batch-api
```

## 4. Configure wrangler

You must create an AI binding for your Worker to connect to Workers AI. [Bindings](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/) allow your Workers to interact with resources, like Workers AI, on the Cloudflare Developer Platform.

To bind Workers AI to your Worker, add the following to the end of your Wrangler file:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[ai]
binding = "AI"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Your binding is [available in your Worker code](/workers/reference/migrate-to-module-workers/#bindings-in-es-modules-format) on [`env.AI`](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/).

## 5. How to use the Batch API

### 1. Sending a Batch request

Send your initial batch inference request by composing a JSON payload containing an array of individual inference requests.

:::note[Note]

Ensure that the total payload is under 10 MB.

:::

> ```javascript title=Example code

Reviewer 3: This is `Javascript`, but you specified `Typescript` earlier in https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/pull/21413/files#diff-dffd3546a92f8b1ac3e1b8454d0434db0b24f1a59a086a70cea716d76216d6bbR36

> ```javascript title=Example code

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this match the worker code you get by default?

			{
				prompt: "tell me a joke",
				temperature: 0.5,
				max_tokens: 100,
			},
			{
				prompt: "write an email from user to provider.",
				temperature: 0.6,
				max_tokens: 101,
			},
			{
				prompt: "tell me a joke about llamas",
				temperature: 0.7,
				max_tokens: 102,
			},
		],
	},
	{ queueRequest: true },
);
```

#### Expected Response

After sending your batch request, you will receive a response similar to:

```json
{
	"status": "queued",
	"request_id": "000-000-000",
	"model": "@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast"
}
```

- **`status`**: Indicates that your request is queued.
- **`request_id`**: A unique identifier for the batch request.
- **`model`**: The model used for the batch inference.

### 2. Polling the Batch Request Status

Once your batch request is queued, use the `request_id` to poll for its status. During processing, the API returns a status "queued" or "running" indicating that the request is still in the queue or being processed.

```javascript title=example
// Polling the status of the batch request using the request_id
const status = env.AI.run("@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast", {
	request_id: "000-000-000",
});
```

> #### Expected polling response (while queued)

Reviewer 3: Remove header, just put into output block

					"response": " The user is asking for a refund for a service that was not provided.\nHere is an example of an email that a user might send to a provider requesting a refund for a service that was not provided:\nSubject: Request for Refund for Undelivered Service\n\nDear [Provider's Name],\n\nI am writing to request a refund for the [service name] that I was supposed to receive from your company on [date]. Unfortunately, the service was not provided as agreed upon, and I have not"
				}
			},
			"success": true
		}
	],
	"usage": {
		"prompt_tokens": 22,
		"completion_tokens": 243,
		"total_tokens": 265
	}
}
```

- **`responses`**: An array of response objects. Each object includes:
  - **`id`**: The index of the corresponding prompt.
  - **`result`**: The inference output, which may be nested depending on your implementation.
  - **`success`**: A Boolean flag indicating if the request was processed successfully.
- **`usage`**: Contains token usage details for the batch request.

## 6. Implementing the Batch API in your Worker

Below is a sample TypeScript Worker that receives a batch of inference requests, sends them to a batch-enabled AI model, and returns the results.

> ```ts

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```ts title="src/index.js"
```

			);
		}
	},
};
```

### How it works:

- **Receiving the Batch request:**
  The Worker expects a `POST` request with a `JSON` payload containing an array called `requests`. Each prompt is an individual inference request.

- **Processing the request:**
  The code validates the payload and uses the AI binding (`env.AI.run()`) to send the batch request to a designated model (such as, `@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast`).

- **Returning the results:**
  Once processed, the AI API returns the batch responses. These responses include an array where each object has an `id` (matching the prompt index) and the corresponding inference result.

## Using the Batch API via the REST API

If you prefer to work directly with the REST API instead of a Cloudflare Worker, below are the steps on how to do it:

### Sending a Batch Request

Make a POST request to the following endpoint:

<CURL
	url="https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<account-id>/ai/run/@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast?queueRequest=true"
	method="POST"
	headers={{
		Authorization: "<token>",
		"Content-Type": "application/json",
	}}
	code={{ mark: "value" }}
/>

> #### Request Payload Example

Reviewer 3: Group this with an output code block too?

```json
{
	"requests": [
		{
			"prompt": "Tell me a story",
			"external_reference": "reference2"
		},
		{
			"prompt": "Tell me a joke",
			"external_reference": "reference1"
		}
	]
}
```

### Retrieving the Batch Response

After receiving a `request_id` from your initial POST, you can poll for or retrieve the results with another POST request:

```bash
POST https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<account-id>/ai/run/@cf/meta/ray-llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast
Authorization: <token>
Content-Type: application/json
```

> #### Request Payload for Retrieving Results

Reviewer 3: Group with an output code block too?
